will the US debt crush the US dollar you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you in today's video we are
going to look at exactly what's been
happening I'll give you all the details
you need to know we're going to talk
about Saudi Arabia we're going to talk
about the Petro dollar we're going to
look at what's happening with us debt
beginning with the fact that US debt is
on Pace to top $56 trillion over the
next 10 years we talked about 30
trillion 34 trillion and of course we
know that it's continuing to go higher
that doesn't include unfunded
liabilities we already know this it's
established everybody knows it by now or
at least most people do but it's all
being put on the back burner saying look
we've got everything under control but
things have really changed in recent
years yes we can point at new
developments that have been occurring
ing there have been the bricks Nations
which have come together and basically
said no we're going to do things our own
way we've watched a lot of these changes
happen but fundamentally the United
States is still the number one economy
it's still the number one currency in
many ways when we look at the total
reserves globally it's about
59% and if you were to think about that
well maybe I need some more context the
next one down in number two position is
only a few perc and then it's lower and
lower and lower you see what's happening
here is we're going into a very
different world and I want to talk about
that now reports of the petrol dollar
systems demise are fake news this
individual is talking about what has
happened recently there was the you know
Saudi Arabia basically coming forward
and saying this they're considering
accepting Yuan instead of dollars for
Chinese oil sales in fact this was back
in
2022 and now we're starting to hear a
lot of it because there was this Petr
Dollar Deal what the previous article
was talking about was related to the
fact that during the 70s we started to
see some big changes and that Saudi
Arabia would start to sell their oil
exclusively in US Dollars what that
article was talking about is they're
still at that point even after this
so-called deal was put through still
selling in Sterling okay and so perhaps
that deal wasn't exactly a deal that's
what I was talking about the point
though is that now they are officially
selling in other currencies are they
going to sell a lot of their oil in US
dollar absolutely when you take a US
dollar any country in the world even the
those that are heavily sanctioned by the
US that US dollar is still super
valuable so keep that in mind okay I
want to keep this in context I want to
keep it honest you have to understand
though things have really changed this
is coming from the
IMD and this is the world
competitiveness ranking I talked about
this with the finance Friday crew shout
outs to the finance
Friday and I think is really important
to cover here as well just briefly they
they've got the big download but you can
look at this quickly an economy's
competitiveness cannot be reduced to
just its GDP and productivity political
social and cultural dimensions are a
reality for Enterprises too governments
play a crucial role and so on and you
could look at these countries in this
list number one being Singapore you've
got Switzerland Denmark Ireland and so
on UAE obviously coming way up
continuing to improve in that regard
Qatar is on this list as well now the
USA has moved down and I want to show
you here that they dropped out of the
global competitiveness top 10 they were
back in 2000 number one moved down a few
spots some years later and now they are
off the top 10 and this tells us that
things have really changed does it mean
that Singapore is the best of the best
in the whole world and everyone should
move to Singapore no no um but what it
does tell us is that they're making some
clear and obvious good decisions going
from a place that was swamp land that
Malaysia didn't even appear to want and
now very very different Circumstance the
world's most competitive economies you
could look at this chart as well just to
give you a look um at it on a map um you
know with that it comes the relations
that countries have developed over the
years and this is just one indicator
countries with the most embassies
globally number one is China number two
is the United States uh France is next
on the list and so this means that you
have information that needs to flow
documents that need to flow and they
want that to be there and so this is a
good sign the more embassies you have of
course that's that's a good sign but now
what's happening is we're seeing that
change occur we are moving from west to
east split right at the Middle East it's
it's interesting the way that is uh
working and you ask the question what's
next well with all of this if the United
States loses the hemony and we become
the multi-polar world that we've been
hearing so much
about it will have an impact not today
not even tomorrow you'll watch this
video all right and you'll wake up the
next day and it's still going to be
roughly the same but slowly overtime
this slow erosion is taking place and
this is part of it as inflation Rises
prepare for Crime you've heard it you've
seen
it every city seems to have more and
more and more crime did you see the
interview
with the president of uh El Salvador
when he did the interview with Tucker
Carlson he said how can you allow people
to shoplift
$1,000 and he's saying what would
incentivize these people to work if they
can just steal and steal and
steal and of course he's pointing at one
thing but you got to understand here
that crime will be and continue to get
worse over time just the shoplifting
example was just one thing the ban of
retail to prevent theft many big chains
now lock up all kinds of merchandise and
of course it's not just things like high
ticket items you know your laptops and
your phones and all that I've seen I've
seen toothpaste being locked up in some
of the
videos toothpaste because that is a
commodity that can then be
resold and it is sad to see the
direction that things have head head
into you know looking at this this is
the scenario that gen xers are nearing
retirement about half say they need a
miracle that's what the article talks
about that people today they're you know
on the cusp of retirement and they just
can't there's no way so they have to
keep working we've heard the same from
people that are 65 and Beyond at the
same time however we have these this is
Optimus the Tesla
robot um but robots in general I just
want to show you that it kind of shows
you like their fingers the dexterity
they're not quite at human level
dexterity but it is enough to play piano
which is pretty dextrous and the
sensitivity is going to improve we know
that over the next few years so imagine
here you are trying to retire and
there's these robots that are highly
skilled highly skilled robots just about
to come on maybe it's three years maybe
it's 5 years maybe it's seven years
whatever it is they're going to be
fantastic we're not there yet there's no
question about that but for its function
they're going to be fantastic why it's I
mean it's not that much different we
have these arms that move we got flippy
the robot it can do basic tasks so it
just needs to be a little bit more
intricate and that's what's happening we
got to compete against something that
could potentially work if if it was
plugged in could potentially be working
24/7 no complaints no raises you buy it
one time doesn't need a salary or maybe
maybe they'll do some sort of uh monthly
payment plan who
knows and it's going to displace jobs
and it's going to do it very well that
is worrisome for all these people you
got crime being rampant you got robots
at Automation and AI taking a lot of
existing positions White Collar jobs
potentially Blue Collar jobs you're
looking at The Changing Times with the
currency
itself and so we come full circle that's
what we do with the money GPS it takes
an entire video to come back to it but I
always make my point will debt sync the
American
Empire and this has been the case all
along we've heard this yeah yeah the us
is going down the dollars going down
yeah but what's happening here in the
multi-polar world it basically the US
can spend into
Infinity because it has this maximum
advantage that everybody wants US
Dollars and people will buy their debt
it can do that because there's a lot of
other countries out there that are real
ugly but we have seen the developments
taking place and things have really
changed over the last 5 years I was
showing the finance Friday crew in fact
people talking we were talking about
this basically that tier 2 cities not
the tier one cities the tier 2 Cities of
China are and when we look at the
infrastructure just the
infrastructure they they have
outperformed they're much better than
the tier one cities of the West
you know that example you know with the
California with the railway they tried
to build this
Railway they built like the a very short
section of it and it cost billions of
dollars like that would never happen in
a lot of other countries that are on the
way up those are the countries that are
making things happen there's several of
them that are like you know in
developing status they got a long way to
go got years to go but they're going to
capture more market share their
populations are increasing their growth
is taking place they're consuming more
because when you go into a mature or
Advanced economy you could see this a
lot with Europe the you know the
population is mature the whole economy
is mature like everything is maturing
the growth slows down there's not as
much consumption coming from there
they've already got a lot of their land
built up there's all that has happened
and they got got so much red tape from
all of that you're going to lose out to
these other new countries that are
growing I shouldn't say new countries
but growing countries and that is what's
happening here and the worry is that
people are
unprepared number one get your skills up
make sure that your skills are being
upgraded as best you can okay you can do
that through things like class Central I
talk about that all the time I've got
compass on my website totally free
financial education that at least it's
like a foundation super simple totally
free no email no nothing if you want to
go into the indepth the the thing that I
would tell like if a friend was asking
me what should I do you should be
starting an online business there's no
question about that if you want to know
more about the financial stuff I've got
that help as well but if you want the
online business I think that's the way
to go right now because if you got to
move you got to be geographically
Diversified you got to have money coming
from different places and you've got to
have a business that can operate that
doesn't depend on where you are at any
given time I teach people it's at
themoney gps.com
slive you got to get on there I want to
see you there and the people that are in
that group are fantastic it's a small
Zoom that we have each and every weekend
if you want more information there's a
link at the top of the description
description of this video it looks just
like this the money gps.com slive I want
to see you there and as always come back
every Monday and we could do these
videos I could give as much information
as I possibly can I'll see you next week
take care